.github/scripts/README.md, before:

# Close Duplicates Script

This script automatically closes duplicate GitHub issues by title, keeping the lowest numbered issue open.

## Setup

### 1. Create a GitHub Personal Access Token

1. Go to GitHub Settings → Developer settings → Personal access tokens → Tokens (classic)
2. Generate a new token with the following permissions:
   - `repo` (Full control of private repositories)
   - `public_repo` (Access public repositories)

### 2. Set Environment Variables

```bash
export GH_TOKEN="your_github_token_here"
export REPO="jdfalk/subtitle-manager"
```

### 3. Test the Script

#### Dry Run (Recommended First)
```bash
export DRY_RUN="true"
python .github/scripts/close-duplicates.py
```

#### Test Logic Without API Calls
```bash
python .github/scripts/test-duplicates.py
```

#### Live Run (Will Actually Close Issues)
```bash
python .github/scripts/close-duplicates.py
```

## How It Works

1. Fetches all open issues from the repository
2. Groups issues by exact title match
3. For each group with duplicates:
   - Keeps the issue with the lowest number as canonical
   - Closes all other issues in the group
   - Adds a comment linking to the canonical issue

## Features

- **Pagination Support**: Handles repositories with >100 issues
- **Pull Request Filtering**: Only processes issues, not PRs
- **Dry Run Mode**: Test without making changes
- **Detailed Logging**: Shows exactly what it's doing
- **Error Handling**: Clear error messages for common issues

## Workflow

The GitHub Action runs daily at 1 AM UTC and can be triggered manually:

- **Scheduled**: Every day at 1 AM UTC
- **Manual**: Via GitHub Actions "Run workflow" button

## Troubleshooting

### 401 Unauthorized
- Check that `GH_TOKEN` is set correctly
- Verify the token has the right permissions
- Make sure the token hasn't expired

### 404 Not Found
- Check that `REPO` is in the format `owner/repository`
- Verify you have access to the repository

### No Duplicates Found
- This is normal if there are no duplicate titles
- The script only matches exact titles (case-sensitive)

Commit message:

docs: update README with token generation instructions
Clarify the process for creating GitHub Personal Access Tokens,
including fine-grained and classic token options.

Files changed:
- Updated token generation instructions: [README.md](https://github.com/jdfalk/subtitle-manager/blob/main/.github/scripts/README.md)

Signed-off-by: Johnathan Falk <johnathan.falk@gmail.com>

.github/scripts/README.md, after:

# Close Duplicates Script

This script automatically closes duplicate GitHub issues by title, keeping the lowest numbered issue open.

## Setup

### 1. Create a GitHub Personal Access Token

#### Fine-Grained Personal Access Token (Recommended)
1. Go to GitHub Settings → Developer settings → Personal access tokens → Fine-grained tokens
2. Generate a new token with repository access to your repo
3. Grant the following permissions:
   - **Contents**: Read (to access repository)
   - **Issues**: Write (to close issues and add comments)

#### Classic Personal Access Token (Legacy)
1. Go to GitHub Settings → Developer settings → Personal access tokens → Tokens (classic)
2. Generate a new token with the following permissions:
   - `repo` (Full control of private repositories)
   - `public_repo` (Access public repositories)

> **Note**: The script automatically detects token type. Fine-grained tokens start with `github_pat_`, classic tokens start with `ghp_`, `gho_`, or `ghs_`.

### 2. Set Environment Variables

```bash
export GH_TOKEN="your_github_token_here"
export REPO="jdfalk/subtitle-manager"
```

### 3. Test the Script

#### Dry Run (Recommended First)
```bash
export DRY_RUN="true"
python .github/scripts/close-duplicates.py
```

#### Test Logic Without API Calls
```bash
python .github/scripts/test-duplicates.py
```

#### Live Run (Will Actually Close Issues)
```bash
python .github/scripts/close-duplicates.py
```

## How It Works

1. Fetches all open issues from the repository
2. Groups issues by exact title match
3. For each group with duplicates:
   - Keeps the issue with the lowest number as canonical
   - Closes all other issues in the group
   - Adds a comment linking to the canonical issue

## Features

- **Pagination Support**: Handles repositories with >100 issues
- **Pull Request Filtering**: Only processes issues, not PRs
- **Dry Run Mode**: Test without making changes
- **Detailed Logging**: Shows exactly what it's doing
- **Error Handling**: Clear error messages for common issues

## Workflow

The GitHub Action runs daily at 1 AM UTC and can be triggered manually:

- **Scheduled**: Every day at 1 AM UTC
- **Manual**: Via GitHub Actions "Run workflow" button

## Troubleshooting

### 401 Unauthorized
- Check that `GH_TOKEN` is set correctly
- Verify the token has the right permissions
- Make sure the token hasn't expired

### 404 Not Found
- Check that `REPO` is in the format `owner/repository`
- Verify you have access to the repository

### No Duplicates Found
- This is normal if there are no duplicate titles
- The script only matches exact titles (case-sensitive)
